index.md, before:

---

layout: wide
title: "Eris Documentation Home"

---

```
Eris is a platform for building, testing, maintaining, and operating
distributed applications with a blockchain backend. Eris makes it easy
and simple to wrangle the dragons of smart contract blockchains.
```

# The Eris Philosophy

- [What are blockchains?](/explainers/blockchains/)
- [What are smart contracts?](/explainers/smart_contracts/)
- [When are permissioned blockchains better than unpermissioned?](/explainers/permissioned_blockchains/)
- [When are smart contract approaches better than tokenized approaches?](/explainers/contracts_v_tokens/)

# What is Eris?

- [Introduction to the Eris Stack](/explainers/the-eris-stack/)
- [The Eris platform and its components]({{ site.data.sites["main"].url }}/components/)
- [eris:cli Access to the Eris Platform]({{ site.data.sites["main"].url }}/components/eriscli/)
- [eris:db Permissionable, Logic Optimized Blockchain Client]({{ site.data.sites["main"].url }}/components/erisdb/)
- [eris:pm The Smart Contract Package Manager]({{ site.data.sites["main"].url }}/components/epm/)

# Using Eris

- **[Getting Started With Eris](/tutorials/getting-started/)**
- [Create Your Own Permissioned Chain](/tutorials/chain-making/)
- [Deploying Your Own Smart Contracts](/tutorials/contracts-deploying/)
- [Interacting with Your Own Smart Contracts](/tutorials/contracts-interacting/)
- [Collaborating on your application](/tutorials/services-making/)

# Advanced Tutorials

- [In Depth: Writing Your Own Smart Contracts](/tutorials/solidity)
- [In Depth: Getting Started with Eris In the Cloud](/tutorials/advanced/cloud-getting-started)
- [In Depth: Create An Advanced Permissioned Chain](/tutorials/advanced/chain-making)
- [In Depth: Deploy Your Advanced Permissioned Chain to Cloud Instances, and Connect it to Peer Network](/tutorials/advanced/chain-deploying)
- [In Depth: Bonding and Unbonding New Peers to an Existing Chain](/tutorials/advanced/bond-unbond)
- [In Depth: Working with Complex Smart Contract Suites From Eris](/tutorials/advanced/contracts-deploying)
- [In Depth: All About Services: Toadserver](/tutorials/advanced/services-making/)

# Core Reference

- [eris:cli overview](/documentation/eris/)
- [eris:cli command reference and specifications](/documentation/eris-cli/)
- [eris:db overview](/documentation/edb/)
- [eris:db permissioning system](/documentation/eris-db-permissions)
- [eris:db command reference and specifications](/documentation/eris-db-api/)
- [eris:chain_manager overview](/documentation/eris-chain-manager/)
- [eris:chain_manager command reference and specifications](/documentation/eris-cm/)
- [eris:package_manager overview](/documentation/epm/)
- [eris:package_manager command reference and specifications](/documentation/eris-pm/)
- [eris:keys overview](/documentation/ekeys/)
- [eris:keys command reference and specifications](/documentation/eris-keys/)
- [eris:db.js overview](/documentation/eris-db-js/)
- [eris:db.js documentation](/documentation/eris-db.js/)
- [eris:contracts.js overview](/documentation/eris-contracts-js/)
- [eris:compilers overview](/documentation/eris-compilers/)
- [eris:legal overview]({{ site.data.sites["main"].url }}/components/erislegal/)
- [eris:legal command reference and specifications](/documentation/erislegal/)

# Tool-Specific Tutorials

- [Eris <=> Docker Machine](/tutorials//tool-specific/docker_machine)
- [Eris <=> Docker]({{ site.data.sites["blog_eng"].url }}/tutorials/2015/09/05/docker-and-eris/) (Blog Post)
- [Eris <=> IPFS]({{ site.data.sites["blog_db"].url }}/distributed%20business/2015/11/01/eris-and-ipfs/) (Blog Post)
- [eris:cli Walkabout: Services]({{ site.data.sites["blog_eng"].url }}/tutorials/2015/08/05/eris-services/) (Blog Post)
- [eris:cli Walkabout: Chains]({{ site.data.sites["blog_eng"].url }}/tutorials/2015/09/06/introing-eris-chains/) (Blog Post)
- [eris:cli Walkabout: Files]({{ site.data.sites["blog_eng"].url }}/tutorials/2015/08/05/ipfs-as-a-service/) (Blog Post)
- [Exporting and Importing Your Keys](/tutorials/tool-specific/keyexporting)
- [Working with the blockchain using bash and curl](/tutorials/tool-specific/eris_by_curl)
- [Updating your genesis.json](/tutorials/tool-specific/genesisupdating/)

# Test Coverage

- [Comprehensive Stack Tests Status & Godoc Links](/tests/test_coverage/)

# Community

Click on the `connect` menu above to discover the Eris community and get support.

{% image 'CEu7odJWMAA3VSa.jpg' %}

_Marmots of the world, unite!_

Commit message:

add link to eris <=> arm on docs homepage

index.md, after:

---

layout: wide
title: "Eris Documentation Home"

---

```
Eris is a platform for building, testing, maintaining, and operating
distributed applications with a blockchain backend. Eris makes it easy
and simple to wrangle the dragons of smart contract blockchains.
```

# The Eris Philosophy

- [What are blockchains?](/explainers/blockchains/)
- [What are smart contracts?](/explainers/smart_contracts/)
- [When are permissioned blockchains better than unpermissioned?](/explainers/permissioned_blockchains/)
- [When are smart contract approaches better than tokenized approaches?](/explainers/contracts_v_tokens/)

# What is Eris?

- [Introduction to the Eris Stack](/explainers/the-eris-stack/)
- [The Eris platform and its components]({{ site.data.sites["main"].url }}/components/)
- [eris:cli Access to the Eris Platform]({{ site.data.sites["main"].url }}/components/eriscli/)
- [eris:db Permissionable, Logic Optimized Blockchain Client]({{ site.data.sites["main"].url }}/components/erisdb/)
- [eris:pm The Smart Contract Package Manager]({{ site.data.sites["main"].url }}/components/epm/)

# Using Eris

- **[Getting Started With Eris](/tutorials/getting-started/)**
- [Create Your Own Permissioned Chain](/tutorials/chain-making/)
- [Deploying Your Own Smart Contracts](/tutorials/contracts-deploying/)
- [Interacting with Your Own Smart Contracts](/tutorials/contracts-interacting/)
- [Collaborating on your application](/tutorials/services-making/)

# Advanced Tutorials

- [In Depth: Writing Your Own Smart Contracts](/tutorials/solidity)
- [In Depth: Getting Started with Eris In the Cloud](/tutorials/advanced/cloud-getting-started)
- [In Depth: Create An Advanced Permissioned Chain](/tutorials/advanced/chain-making)
- [In Depth: Deploy Your Advanced Permissioned Chain to Cloud Instances, and Connect it to Peer Network](/tutorials/advanced/chain-deploying)
- [In Depth: Bonding and Unbonding New Peers to an Existing Chain](/tutorials/advanced/bond-unbond)
- [In Depth: Working with Complex Smart Contract Suites From Eris](/tutorials/advanced/contracts-deploying)
- [In Depth: All About Services: Toadserver](/tutorials/advanced/services-making/)
- [In Depth: Working with IoT devices and Eris](/tutorials/install-eris-arm)

# Core Reference

- [eris:cli overview](/documentation/eris/)
- [eris:cli command reference and specifications](/documentation/eris-cli/)
- [eris:db overview](/documentation/edb/)
- [eris:db permissioning system](/documentation/eris-db-permissions)
- [eris:db command reference and specifications](/documentation/eris-db-api/)
- [eris:chain_manager overview](/documentation/eris-chain-manager/)
- [eris:chain_manager command reference and specifications](/documentation/eris-cm/)
- [eris:package_manager overview](/documentation/epm/)
- [eris:package_manager command reference and specifications](/documentation/eris-pm/)
- [eris:keys overview](/documentation/ekeys/)
- [eris:keys command reference and specifications](/documentation/eris-keys/)
- [eris:db.js overview](/documentation/eris-db-js/)
- [eris:db.js documentation](/documentation/eris-db.js/)
- [eris:contracts.js overview](/documentation/eris-contracts-js/)
- [eris:compilers overview](/documentation/eris-compilers/)
- [eris:legal overview]({{ site.data.sites["main"].url }}/components/erislegal/)
- [eris:legal command reference and specifications](/documentation/erislegal/)

# Tool-Specific Tutorials

- [Eris <=> Docker Machine](/tutorials//tool-specific/docker_machine)
- [Eris <=> Docker]({{ site.data.sites["blog_eng"].url }}/tutorials/2015/09/05/docker-and-eris/) (Blog Post)
- [Eris <=> IPFS]({{ site.data.sites["blog_db"].url }}/distributed%20business/2015/11/01/eris-and-ipfs/) (Blog Post)
- [eris:cli Walkabout: Services]({{ site.data.sites["blog_eng"].url }}/tutorials/2015/08/05/eris-services/) (Blog Post)
- [eris:cli Walkabout: Chains]({{ site.data.sites["blog_eng"].url }}/tutorials/2015/09/06/introing-eris-chains/) (Blog Post)
- [eris:cli Walkabout: Files]({{ site.data.sites["blog_eng"].url }}/tutorials/2015/08/05/ipfs-as-a-service/) (Blog Post)
- [Exporting and Importing Your Keys](/tutorials/tool-specific/keyexporting)
- [Working with the blockchain using bash and curl](/tutorials/tool-specific/eris_by_curl)
- [Updating your genesis.json](/tutorials/tool-specific/genesisupdating/)

# Test Coverage

- [Comprehensive Stack Tests Status & Godoc Links](/tests/test_coverage/)

# Community

Click on the `connect` menu above to discover the Eris community and get support.

{% image 'CEu7odJWMAA3VSa.jpg' %}

_Marmots of the world, unite!_
