tutorials/tool-specific/eris_by_curl.md, before:

---

layout: docs
title: "Tutorials | Eris by Curl"

---

In an effort to illuminate some of the underpinnings of the eris stack,
here we present an executable tutorial written in bash,
using wherever possible common unix tools for processing and curl for communicating with the http daemons.

This tutorial is a simple demonstration of compiling a solidity contract,
deploying it onto the blockchain, and communicating with it.

Installation instructions are included in the script.

The script can be found independently [here](https://github.com/eris-ltd/mint-client/tree/develop/example)

```bash

#! /bin/bash

# This file is a complete demonstration for the following steps in the eris pipeline
# using nothing but "curl" to talk to HTTP servers and standard unix commands for processing:
#
#  0) Install
#  1) Start a chain with one validator
#  2) Compile a solidity contract
#  3) Create and sign transaction to deploy contract
#  4) Send the transaction to the blockchain
#  5) Wait for a confirmation
#  6) Ensure the contract was deployed correctly
#  7) Create, sign, broadcast, and wait for transaction that talks to the contract
#  8) Query the contract without sending a transaction


########################################
## Step 0 - Installs		      ##
########################################

# you are expected to:
# - be on a unix platform
# - have golang installed (https://golang.org/doc/install)
# - set $GOPATH, set GOBIN=$GOPATH/bin, set PATH=$GOBIN:$PATH
# - have jq installed (https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download)

# now install the eris tools:

if [[ "$NO_INSTALL" == "" ]]; then
	# install the keys daemon for signing transactions
	go get github.com/eris-ltd/eris-keys

	# install the mint-client tools
	go get github.com/eris-ltd/mint-client/...

	# install the erisdb (requires branch 0.10.3)
	git clone https://github.com/eris-ltd/erisdb $GOPATH/src/github.com/eris-ltd/erisdb
	cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/eris-ltd/erisdb
	git checkout 0.10.3
	go install ./cmd/erisdb

	# install the eris-abi tool (required for formatting transactions to contracts)
	go get github.com/eris-ltd/eris-abi/cmd/eris-abi
fi

########################################
## Step 1 - Start a chain	      ##
########################################

# set the chain id:
CHAIN_ID="mychain"

# create genesis file and validator's private key
# and store them in ~/.eris/blockchains/$CHAIN_ID
mintgen random 1 $CHAIN_ID

# create a config file
mintconfig > ~/.eris/blockchains/$CHAIN_ID/config.toml

# start the chain (pipe the log to a file)
erisdb ~/.eris/blockchains/$CHAIN_ID  &> ~/.eris/blockchains/$CHAIN_ID/log &

# start the keys server (for signing transactions)
eris-keys server &

# let everything start up
sleep 2

# import the validator's private key into the key server
# NOTE: this converts the tendermint private key format to the eris private key format
# This step will be eliminated in the near future as the validator's come to use the eris key format
ADDRESS=`mintkey eris ~/.eris/blockchains/$CHAIN_ID/priv_validator.json`

echo "OUR ADDRESS:"
echo $ADDRESS
echo ""


########################################
## Step 2 - Compile Solidity Contract ##
########################################

# simple solidity contract
read -r -d '' CODE << EOM
contract MyContract {

  function add(int a, int b) constant returns (int sum) {
        sum = a + b;
	  }
  }
EOM

# the solidity code needs to be in base64 for the compile server
CODE64=`echo $CODE | base64`

# json data for the curl request to the compile server
read -r -d '' JSON_DATA << EOM
{
	"name":"mycontract",
	"language":"sol",
	"script":"$CODE64"
}
EOM

# location of compiler
URL="https://compilers.eris.industries:9090/compile"

# compile that baby!
RESULT=`curl --silent -X POST -d "${JSON_DATA}" $URL --header "Content-Type:application/json"`

# the compile server returns the bytecode (in base64) and the abi (json)
BYTECODE=`echo $RESULT | jq .bytecode`
ABI=`echo $RESULT | jq .abi`

# trim quotes
BYTECODE="${BYTECODE%\"}"
BYTECODE="${BYTECODE#\"}"

# convert bytecode to hex
# NOTE: this works on mac, but base64 is slightly different on linux (need -d rather than -D)
BYTECODE=`echo $BYTECODE | base64 -D | hexdump -ve '1/1 "%.2X"'`

# unescape quotes in the json and write the ABI to file
# TODO: fix the lllc-server so this doesn't happen
ABI=`eval echo $ABI`
ABI=`echo $ABI | jq .`
echo $ABI > add.abi

echo "BYTE CODE:"
echo $BYTECODE
echo ""

echo "ABI:"
echo $ABI
echo ""

#################################################################
## Step 3 - Create and Sign Transaction for Deploying Contract ##
#################################################################

# location of the blockchain node's rpc server
ERISDB_HOST="localhost:46657"

# to create the transaction, we need to know the account's nonce, so we fetch from the blockchain using simple HTTP
NONCE=`curl -X GET 'http://'"$ERISDB_HOST"'/get_account?address="'"$ADDRESS"'"' --silent | jq ."result"[1].account.sequence`

echo "NONCE:"
echo $NONCE
echo ""

# some variables for the call tx
CALLTX_TYPE=2 # each tx has a type (they can be found in github.com/tendermint/tendermint/types/tx.go)
FEE=0
GAS=1000
AMOUNT=1
NONCE=$(($NONCE + 1)) # the nonce in the transaction must be one greater than the account's current nonce

# the string that must be signed is a special, canonical, deterministic json structure
# that includes the chain_id and the transaction, where all fields are alphabetically ordered and there are no spaces
SIGN_BYTES='{"chain_id":"'"$CHAIN_ID"'","tx":['"$CALLTX_TYPE"',{"address":"","data":"'"$BYTECODE"'","fee":'"$FEE"',"gas_limit":'"$GAS"',"input":{"address":"'"$ADDRESS"'","amount":'"$AMOUNT"',"sequence":'"$NONCE"'}}]}'

# we convert the sign bytes to hex to send to the keys server for signing
SIGN_BYTES_HEX=`echo -n $SIGN_BYTES | hexdump -ve '1/1 "%.2X"'`

echo "SIGNBYTES:"
echo $SIGN_BYTES
echo ""

echo "SIGNBYTES HEX:"
echo $SIGN_BYTES_HEX
echo ""


# to sign the SIGN_BYTES, we curl the eris-keys server:
# (we gave it the private key for this address at the beginning - with mintkey)
read -r -d '' REQ << EOM
{
	"msg":"$SIGN_BYTES_HEX",
	"addr":"$ADDRESS"
}
EOM

ERIS_KEYS_HOST="localhost:4767"
SIGN_URL="$ERIS_KEYS_HOST/sign"
SIGNATURE=`curl --silent -X POST -d "${REQ}" $SIGN_URL --header "Content-Type:application/json"`

SIGNATURE=`echo $SIGNATURE | jq .Response`

echo "SIGNATURE:"
echo $SIGNATURE
echo ""

# we're going to need the pubkey
# (the pubkey can also be fetched via a curl request to $ERIS_KEYS_HOST/pub with post body {"addr:"$ADDRESS"}
PUBKEY=`eris-keys pub --addr=$ADDRESS`

# now we can actually construct the transaction (it's just the sign bytes plus the pubkey and signature!)
# since it's a CallTx with an empty address, a new contract will be created from the data (the bytecode)
read -r -d '' CREATE_CONTRACT_TX << EOM
[$CALLTX_TYPE, {
	"input":{
		"address":"$ADDRESS",
		"amount":$AMOUNT,
		"sequence":$NONCE,
		"signature":[1,$SIGNATURE],
		"pub_key":[1,"$PUBKEY"]
	},
	"address":"",
	"gas_limit":$GAS,
	"fee":$FEE,
	"data":"$BYTECODE"
}]
EOM

echo "CREATE CONTRACT TX:"
echo $CREATE_CONTRACT_TX
echo ""

#############################################
## Step 4 - Broadcast tx to the blockchain ##
#############################################

# package the jsonrpc request for sending the transaction to the blockchain
JSON_DATA='{"jsonrpc":"2.0","id":"","method":"broadcast_tx","params":['"$CREATE_CONTRACT_TX"']}'

echo "JSON DATA:"
echo $JSON_DATA
echo ""

# broadcast the transaction to the chain!
CONTRACT_ADDRESS=`curl --silent -X POST -d "${JSON_DATA}" "$ERISDB_HOST" --header "Content-Type:application/json" | jq .result[1].receipt.contract_addr`

CONTRACT_ADDRESS="${CONTRACT_ADDRESS%\"}"
CONTRACT_ADDRESS="${CONTRACT_ADDRESS#\"}"

echo "CONTRACT ADDRESS:"
echo $CONTRACT_ADDRESS
echo ""

#############################################
## Step 5 - Wait for a confirmation	   ##
#############################################

# now we wait for a block to be confirmed by polling the status endpoint until the block_height increases

BLOCKHEIGHT_START=`curl -X GET 'http://'"$ERISDB_HOST"'/status' --silent | jq ."result"[1]."latest_block_height"`

BLOCKHEIGHT=$BLOCKHEIGHT_START

while [[ "$BLOCKHEIGHT_START" == "$BLOCKHEIGHT" ]]; do
	BLOCKHEIGHT=`curl -X GET 'http://'"$ERISDB_HOST"'/status' --silent | jq ."result"[1]."latest_block_height"`
done

echo "BLOCKHEIGHT"
echo "$BLOCKHEIGHT"
echo ""

# Note we could also set up a websocket connection and subscribe to NewBlock events
# (eg. subscribeAndWait in github.com/eris-ltd/mint-client/mintx/core/core.go )

#############################################
## Step 6 - Verify the contract's bytecode ##
#############################################

CODE=`curl -X GET 'http://'"$ERISDB_HOST"'/get_account?address="'"$CONTRACT_ADDRESS"'"' --silent | jq ."result"[1].account.code`

# strip quotes
CODE="${CODE%\"}"
CODE="${CODE#\"}"

echo "CODE AT CONTRACT:"
echo $CODE
echo ""

# NOTE: CODE won't be exactly equal to BYTECODE
# because BYTECODE contains additional code for the actual deployment (the init/constructor sequence of a contract)
# so we only ensure that BYTECODE contains CODE
if [[ "$BYTECODE" == *"$CODE"* ]]; then
	echo "THE CODE WAS DEPLOYED CORRECTLY!"
else
	echo "THE CODE AT THE CONTRACT ADDRESS IS NOT WHAT WE DEPLOYED!"
	echo "Deployed: $BYTECODE"
	echo "Got: $CODE"
fi

##################################################################
## Step 7 - Create and Sign Transaction for Talking to Contract ##
##################################################################

# some variables for the call tx
FEE=0
GAS=1000
AMOUNT=1

# we are going to call the "add" function of our contract
# and use it to add two numbers
FUNCTION="add"
ARG1="25"
ARG2="37"
SUM_EXPECTED=$(( $ARG1 + $ARG2 ))

# we need to format the data for the abi properly
# this part is tricky because we need to get the function identifier for the function we are trying to call from the contract
# the function identifier is the first 4 bytes of the sha3 hash of a canonical form of the function signature
# details are here: https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/Ethereum-Contract-ABI
# we use the eris-abi tool to make this simple:
DATA=`eris-abi pack --input file add.abi $FUNCTION $ARG1 $ARG2`

echo "DATA FOR CONTRACT CALL:"
echo $DATA
echo ""

# since we've already shown how to create a transaction, sign it, and send it to the blockchain using curl,
# now we do it simply using the mintx tool.
# the --sign and --broadcast flags ensure the transaction is signed (by the private key associated with --pubkey)
# and broadcast to the chain. the --wait flag waits until the transaction is confirmed
RESULT=`mintx call --node-addr=$ERISDB_HOST --chainID=$CHAIN_ID --to=$CONTRACT_ADDRESS --amt=$AMOUNT --fee=$FEE --gas=$GAS --data=$DATA --pubkey=$PUBKEY --sign --broadcast --wait`

echo "$RESULT"
echo ""

# grab the return value
SUM_GOT=`echo "$RESULT" | grep "Return Value:" | awk '{print $3}' | sed 's/^0*//'`

# convert it from hex to int
SUM_GOT=`echo $((16#$SUM_GOT))`


if [[ "$SUM_GOT" != "$SUM_EXPECTED" ]]; then
	echo "SMART CONTRACT ADDITION TX FAILED"
	echo "GOT $SUM_GOT"
	echo "EXPECTED $SUM_EXPECTED"
else
	echo "SMART CONTRACT ADDITION TX SUCCEEDED!"
	echo "$ARG1 + $ARG2 = $SUM_GOT"
fi
echo ""


##################################################################
## Step 8 - Talk to Contracts Without Creating Transactions     ##
##################################################################

# It is possible to "query" contracts using the /call endpoint.
# Such queries are only "simulated calls", in that there is no transaction (or signature)
# required, and hence they have no effect on the blockchain state.

SUM_GOT=`curl -X GET 'http://'"$ERISDB_HOST"'/call?fromAddress="'"$ADDRESS"'"&toAddress="'"$CONTRACT_ADDRESS"'"&data="'"$DATA"'"' --silent | jq ."result"[1].return`

# strip quotes
SUM_GOT="${SUM_GOT%\"}"
SUM_GOT="${SUM_GOT#\"}"

# convert it from hex to int
SUM_GOT=`echo $((16#$SUM_GOT))`

if [[ "$SUM_GOT" != "$SUM_EXPECTED" ]]; then
	echo "SMART CONTRACT ADDITION QUERY FAILED"
	echo "GOT $SUM_GOT"
	echo "EXPECTED $SUM_EXPECTED"
else
	echo "SMART CONTRACT ADDITION QUERY SUCCEEDED!"
	echo "$ARG1 + $ARG2 = $SUM_GOT"
fi

```

Commit message:

add deprecation notice to eris by curl, closes #113

tutorials/tool-specific/eris_by_curl.md, after:

---

layout: docs
title: "Tutorials | Eris by Curl"

---

In an effort to illuminate some of the underpinnings of the eris stack,
here we present an executable tutorial written in bash,
using wherever possible common unix tools for processing and curl for communicating with the http daemons.

This tutorial is a simple demonstration of compiling a solidity contract,
deploying it onto the blockchain, and communicating with it.

Installation instructions are included in the script.

**Deprecation notice:** This tutorial is, for the most part, deprecated by way of stale versions. That said, the sequencing does display the logic under the hood of `eris-cli`.

```bash

#! /bin/bash

# This file is a complete demonstration for the following steps in the eris pipeline
# using nothing but "curl" to talk to HTTP servers and standard unix commands for processing:
#
#  0) Install
#  1) Start a chain with one validator
#  2) Compile a solidity contract
#  3) Create and sign transaction to deploy contract
#  4) Send the transaction to the blockchain
#  5) Wait for a confirmation
#  6) Ensure the contract was deployed correctly
#  7) Create, sign, broadcast, and wait for transaction that talks to the contract
#  8) Query the contract without sending a transaction


########################################
## Step 0 - Installs		      ##
########################################

# you are expected to:
# - be on a unix platform
# - have golang installed (https://golang.org/doc/install)
# - set $GOPATH, set GOBIN=$GOPATH/bin, set PATH=$GOBIN:$PATH
# - have jq installed (https://stedolan.github.io/jq/download)

# now install the eris tools:

if [[ "$NO_INSTALL" == "" ]]; then
	# install the keys daemon for signing transactions
	go get github.com/eris-ltd/eris-keys

	# install the mint-client tools
	go get github.com/eris-ltd/mint-client/...

	# install the erisdb (requires branch 0.10.3)
	git clone https://github.com/eris-ltd/erisdb $GOPATH/src/github.com/eris-ltd/erisdb
	cd $GOPATH/src/github.com/eris-ltd/erisdb
	git checkout 0.10.3
	go install ./cmd/erisdb

	# install the eris-abi tool (required for formatting transactions to contracts)
	go get github.com/eris-ltd/eris-abi/cmd/eris-abi
fi

########################################
## Step 1 - Start a chain	      ##
########################################

# set the chain id:
CHAIN_ID="mychain"

# create genesis file and validator's private key
# and store them in ~/.eris/blockchains/$CHAIN_ID
mintgen random 1 $CHAIN_ID

# create a config file
mintconfig > ~/.eris/blockchains/$CHAIN_ID/config.toml

# start the chain (pipe the log to a file)
erisdb ~/.eris/blockchains/$CHAIN_ID  &> ~/.eris/blockchains/$CHAIN_ID/log &

# start the keys server (for signing transactions)
eris-keys server &

# let everything start up
sleep 2

# import the validator's private key into the key server
# NOTE: this converts the tendermint private key format to the eris private key format
# This step will be eliminated in the near future as the validator's come to use the eris key format
ADDRESS=`mintkey eris ~/.eris/blockchains/$CHAIN_ID/priv_validator.json`

echo "OUR ADDRESS:"
echo $ADDRESS
echo ""


########################################
## Step 2 - Compile Solidity Contract ##
########################################

# simple solidity contract
read -r -d '' CODE << EOM
contract MyContract {

  function add(int a, int b) constant returns (int sum) {
        sum = a + b;
	  }
  }
EOM

# the solidity code needs to be in base64 for the compile server
CODE64=`echo $CODE | base64`

# json data for the curl request to the compile server
read -r -d '' JSON_DATA << EOM
{
	"name":"mycontract",
	"language":"sol",
	"script":"$CODE64"
}
EOM

# location of compiler
URL="https://compilers.eris.industries:9090/compile"

# compile that baby!
RESULT=`curl --silent -X POST -d "${JSON_DATA}" $URL --header "Content-Type:application/json"`

# the compile server returns the bytecode (in base64) and the abi (json)
BYTECODE=`echo $RESULT | jq .bytecode`
ABI=`echo $RESULT | jq .abi`

# trim quotes
BYTECODE="${BYTECODE%\"}"
BYTECODE="${BYTECODE#\"}"

# convert bytecode to hex
# NOTE: this works on mac, but base64 is slightly different on linux (need -d rather than -D)
BYTECODE=`echo $BYTECODE | base64 -D | hexdump -ve '1/1 "%.2X"'`

# unescape quotes in the json and write the ABI to file
# TODO: fix the lllc-server so this doesn't happen
ABI=`eval echo $ABI`
ABI=`echo $ABI | jq .`
echo $ABI > add.abi

echo "BYTE CODE:"
echo $BYTECODE
echo ""

echo "ABI:"
echo $ABI
echo ""

#################################################################
## Step 3 - Create and Sign Transaction for Deploying Contract ##
#################################################################

# location of the blockchain node's rpc server
ERISDB_HOST="localhost:46657"

# to create the transaction, we need to know the account's nonce, so we fetch from the blockchain using simple HTTP
NONCE=`curl -X GET 'http://'"$ERISDB_HOST"'/get_account?address="'"$ADDRESS"'"' --silent | jq ."result"[1].account.sequence`

echo "NONCE:"
echo $NONCE
echo ""

# some variables for the call tx
CALLTX_TYPE=2 # each tx has a type (they can be found in github.com/tendermint/tendermint/types/tx.go)
FEE=0
GAS=1000
AMOUNT=1
NONCE=$(($NONCE + 1)) # the nonce in the transaction must be one greater than the account's current nonce

# the string that must be signed is a special, canonical, deterministic json structure
# that includes the chain_id and the transaction, where all fields are alphabetically ordered and there are no spaces
SIGN_BYTES='{"chain_id":"'"$CHAIN_ID"'","tx":['"$CALLTX_TYPE"',{"address":"","data":"'"$BYTECODE"'","fee":'"$FEE"',"gas_limit":'"$GAS"',"input":{"address":"'"$ADDRESS"'","amount":'"$AMOUNT"',"sequence":'"$NONCE"'}}]}'

# we convert the sign bytes to hex to send to the keys server for signing
SIGN_BYTES_HEX=`echo -n $SIGN_BYTES | hexdump -ve '1/1 "%.2X"'`

echo "SIGNBYTES:"
echo $SIGN_BYTES
echo ""

echo "SIGNBYTES HEX:"
echo $SIGN_BYTES_HEX
echo ""


# to sign the SIGN_BYTES, we curl the eris-keys server:
# (we gave it the private key for this address at the beginning - with mintkey)
read -r -d '' REQ << EOM
{
	"msg":"$SIGN_BYTES_HEX",
	"addr":"$ADDRESS"
}
EOM

ERIS_KEYS_HOST="localhost:4767"
SIGN_URL="$ERIS_KEYS_HOST/sign"
SIGNATURE=`curl --silent -X POST -d "${REQ}" $SIGN_URL --header "Content-Type:application/json"`

SIGNATURE=`echo $SIGNATURE | jq .Response`

echo "SIGNATURE:"
echo $SIGNATURE
echo ""

# we're going to need the pubkey
# (the pubkey can also be fetched via a curl request to $ERIS_KEYS_HOST/pub with post body {"addr:"$ADDRESS"}
PUBKEY=`eris-keys pub --addr=$ADDRESS`

# now we can actually construct the transaction (it's just the sign bytes plus the pubkey and signature!)
# since it's a CallTx with an empty address, a new contract will be created from the data (the bytecode)
read -r -d '' CREATE_CONTRACT_TX << EOM
[$CALLTX_TYPE, {
	"input":{
		"address":"$ADDRESS",
		"amount":$AMOUNT,
		"sequence":$NONCE,
		"signature":[1,$SIGNATURE],
		"pub_key":[1,"$PUBKEY"]
	},
	"address":"",
	"gas_limit":$GAS,
	"fee":$FEE,
	"data":"$BYTECODE"
}]
EOM

echo "CREATE CONTRACT TX:"
echo $CREATE_CONTRACT_TX
echo ""

#############################################
## Step 4 - Broadcast tx to the blockchain ##
#############################################

# package the jsonrpc request for sending the transaction to the blockchain
JSON_DATA='{"jsonrpc":"2.0","id":"","method":"broadcast_tx","params":['"$CREATE_CONTRACT_TX"']}'

echo "JSON DATA:"
echo $JSON_DATA
echo ""

# broadcast the transaction to the chain!
CONTRACT_ADDRESS=`curl --silent -X POST -d "${JSON_DATA}" "$ERISDB_HOST" --header "Content-Type:application/json" | jq .result[1].receipt.contract_addr`

CONTRACT_ADDRESS="${CONTRACT_ADDRESS%\"}"
CONTRACT_ADDRESS="${CONTRACT_ADDRESS#\"}"

echo "CONTRACT ADDRESS:"
echo $CONTRACT_ADDRESS
echo ""

#############################################
## Step 5 - Wait for a confirmation	   ##
#############################################

# now we wait for a block to be confirmed by polling the status endpoint until the block_height increases

BLOCKHEIGHT_START=`curl -X GET 'http://'"$ERISDB_HOST"'/status' --silent | jq ."result"[1]."latest_block_height"`

BLOCKHEIGHT=$BLOCKHEIGHT_START

while [[ "$BLOCKHEIGHT_START" == "$BLOCKHEIGHT" ]]; do
	BLOCKHEIGHT=`curl -X GET 'http://'"$ERISDB_HOST"'/status' --silent | jq ."result"[1]."latest_block_height"`
done

echo "BLOCKHEIGHT"
echo "$BLOCKHEIGHT"
echo ""

# Note we could also set up a websocket connection and subscribe to NewBlock events
# (eg. subscribeAndWait in github.com/eris-ltd/mint-client/mintx/core/core.go )

#############################################
## Step 6 - Verify the contract's bytecode ##
#############################################

CODE=`curl -X GET 'http://'"$ERISDB_HOST"'/get_account?address="'"$CONTRACT_ADDRESS"'"' --silent | jq ."result"[1].account.code`

# strip quotes
CODE="${CODE%\"}"
CODE="${CODE#\"}"

echo "CODE AT CONTRACT:"
echo $CODE
echo ""

# NOTE: CODE won't be exactly equal to BYTECODE
# because BYTECODE contains additional code for the actual deployment (the init/constructor sequence of a contract)
# so we only ensure that BYTECODE contains CODE
if [[ "$BYTECODE" == *"$CODE"* ]]; then
	echo "THE CODE WAS DEPLOYED CORRECTLY!"
else
	echo "THE CODE AT THE CONTRACT ADDRESS IS NOT WHAT WE DEPLOYED!"
	echo "Deployed: $BYTECODE"
	echo "Got: $CODE"
fi

##################################################################
## Step 7 - Create and Sign Transaction for Talking to Contract ##
##################################################################

# some variables for the call tx
FEE=0
GAS=1000
AMOUNT=1

# we are going to call the "add" function of our contract
# and use it to add two numbers
FUNCTION="add"
ARG1="25"
ARG2="37"
SUM_EXPECTED=$(( $ARG1 + $ARG2 ))

# we need to format the data for the abi properly
# this part is tricky because we need to get the function identifier for the function we are trying to call from the contract
# the function identifier is the first 4 bytes of the sha3 hash of a canonical form of the function signature
# details are here: https://github.com/ethereum/wiki/wiki/Ethereum-Contract-ABI
# we use the eris-abi tool to make this simple:
DATA=`eris-abi pack --input file add.abi $FUNCTION $ARG1 $ARG2`

echo "DATA FOR CONTRACT CALL:"
echo $DATA
echo ""

# since we've already shown how to create a transaction, sign it, and send it to the blockchain using curl,
# now we do it simply using the mintx tool.
# the --sign and --broadcast flags ensure the transaction is signed (by the private key associated with --pubkey)
# and broadcast to the chain. the --wait flag waits until the transaction is confirmed
RESULT=`mintx call --node-addr=$ERISDB_HOST --chainID=$CHAIN_ID --to=$CONTRACT_ADDRESS --amt=$AMOUNT --fee=$FEE --gas=$GAS --data=$DATA --pubkey=$PUBKEY --sign --broadcast --wait`

echo "$RESULT"
echo ""

# grab the return value
SUM_GOT=`echo "$RESULT" | grep "Return Value:" | awk '{print $3}' | sed 's/^0*//'`

# convert it from hex to int
SUM_GOT=`echo $((16#$SUM_GOT))`


if [[ "$SUM_GOT" != "$SUM_EXPECTED" ]]; then
	echo "SMART CONTRACT ADDITION TX FAILED"
	echo "GOT $SUM_GOT"
	echo "EXPECTED $SUM_EXPECTED"
else
	echo "SMART CONTRACT ADDITION TX SUCCEEDED!"
	echo "$ARG1 + $ARG2 = $SUM_GOT"
fi
echo ""


##################################################################
## Step 8 - Talk to Contracts Without Creating Transactions     ##
##################################################################

# It is possible to "query" contracts using the /call endpoint.
# Such queries are only "simulated calls", in that there is no transaction (or signature)
# required, and hence they have no effect on the blockchain state.

SUM_GOT=`curl -X GET 'http://'"$ERISDB_HOST"'/call?fromAddress="'"$ADDRESS"'"&toAddress="'"$CONTRACT_ADDRESS"'"&data="'"$DATA"'"' --silent | jq ."result"[1].return`

# strip quotes
SUM_GOT="${SUM_GOT%\"}"
SUM_GOT="${SUM_GOT#\"}"

# convert it from hex to int
SUM_GOT=`echo $((16#$SUM_GOT))`

if [[ "$SUM_GOT" != "$SUM_EXPECTED" ]]; then
	echo "SMART CONTRACT ADDITION QUERY FAILED"
	echo "GOT $SUM_GOT"
	echo "EXPECTED $SUM_EXPECTED"
else
	echo "SMART CONTRACT ADDITION QUERY SUCCEEDED!"
	echo "$ARG1 + $ARG2 = $SUM_GOT"
fi

```
